[Go Back](index.md)

## The Premise
The state of medical innovation as it exists today is at a tipping point; cheap and widely available genomic sequencing, precision monitoring wearable devices and even mobile phones are recording and transmitting vast amount of health data on every individual on the planet while fields of study such as data analytics, machine learning, and artificial intelligence are rapidly improving in their ability to predict and track outcomes through data.

It is natural to assume that the medical research community is doing their best to take advantage of this intersection, but the unfortunate truth is that our ideas about health and about data in general are flawed. Corporations make a lot of money storing and siloing the data you are implicitly producing, while keeping potentially life-saving treatments either intentionally locked away by buying up patents or made simply inaccessible due to their prices -- and this stands counter to accessible high-quality healthcare, to having large and representative data be available for researchers and academics to analyze; to having cost-effective treatments to cure disease and improve the health of the global population.

LunaDNA (and the parent corporation LunaPBC), put simply, is a team of engineers, bioinformaticians, designers, engagers, and leaders who have decided to shift the current paradigm of health data and research. Instead of owning data, LunaDNA offers itself as a community data store and facilitator between individuals and researchers, and votes to put the individual at the center of health discovery. You are able to contribute your own genomic data, your electronic health records, your wearable data (soon!) or take surveys as assessments and receive shares in LunaPBC while staying anonymized; researchers who wish to gain access to this data may pay a fee to enter and then be given an ergonomic interface to then select their appropriate cohort with the parameters they desire, as well as run their own analysis and processing. The members receive dividends from the company and are therefore rewarded for contributing to research, while the researchers gain value from receiving a holistic, representative, globally inclusive dataset that ties together different types of assessment to provide a detailed picture of their cohort.

It's all well and good to talk about what we want to do, but as software engineers we have to sit down and actually do it. Many challenges come from the simple values we espouse: Privacy, Security, and Transparency. Some challenges come from our efforts to intake data from many vendors and provide quality control measures. Regardless of the requirements, in spite of the constraints, we aim to create a platform that will change the way medical research is conducted, and try to have fun doing it too. We hope you enjoy it as much as we do!

[Go Back](index.md)
